First round of team notes

Alpha:

Please indicate Chair and Secretary for next meeting

Bravo:

Very good

Charlie, Delta, Foxtrot all ok.

Topics:

> Unsure of schedule for cycles.
> When is deadline for work? Both weekly and final.

Whenever a team meeting is scheduled/held, at least once a week,
minutes needs to be uploaded on canvas, preferably the same day.

Deadlines for assignments according to canvas.

> Understanding is that homework is only discussed and shared in minutes.

Suggested homework is not required but recommended.

> How does an aircraft maintain a constant pressure altitude?
> QNH based on weather reports.

Far away from airport, everyone on standard atmosphere, rotate on
altimeter to 1013.25,

When approaching airport, air traffic control will give you QNH that
you should dial in your altimeter to.

On departure, there is a transition altitude (TA) that you dial into when
passing a certain altitude, often 1500 meters (5000 feet) in Sweden.
But this can be different depending on airport rules.

TA in Swedish is genomgångshöjd

Check airport maps in AIP, and in commercial operations training
is needed as regulations are somewhat complex.

> How in-depth should analysis be? Standards for quality of work?

In the end, a research paper style report is required, and coding
should be of good quality but not more complicated than necessary.
It is important to clearly describe and motivate your approach
and simplifications.


> How to know the hinge point/datum in xfoil? How to find aerodynamic
> centre of aerofoil in

Moment reference point is quarter chord (chord/4), xfoil uses a
nondimensional coordinate system with x in (0,1.0).

XFOIL> ?
XYCM rr Change CM reference location, currently  0.25000 0.20000
XFOIL > gdes
GDES > flap
GDES > x
OPER >

> Getting xfoil to run and how to use it.
> How to apply xfoil to solve the course’s problems.

More to come, but check the folder windex_xfoil and

README_windex_xfoil.txt

There is basic information available to solve the simple task,
for a higher grade you will need to develop an extended data
base of airfoil data.  


Minor difficulties:

> Getting used with the tools of the course.

I will try to support when specific issues appear as we move along.

> We had difficulties placing the line between the
> individual work and teamwork.

Write an individual report

Make sure to have your own Matlab code

Collaborate on how to solve the problems, discuss and learn from each
other in the team and use the team sessions to discuss and prepare
questions for me and I will try to support you in your progression.

> Not a difficulty, but we will need to read through the course
> material to understand better the context of the course and its project

We use the Windex aircraft for development of a simulation model that
we will use to simulate flight, investigate stability and control,
and perhaps also some design problems.

